English/CommunitySources.md, before:

# Community sources

## C++ General

- [CppReference](https://en.cppreference.com)
- [CPlusPlus](https://www.cplusplus.com/reference)
- [C++ Core Guidelines](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines)
- [Microsoft GSL C++ (Guidelines Support Library)](https://github.com/microsoft/GSL)
- [News from the C++ Standardization Committee](https://isocpp.org/)
- [C++ Online Compiler Explorer](https://gcc.godbolt.org)

## Popular C++ conferences 

- [C++ Russia](https://cppconf.ru/en)
- [Cpp Con](https://cppcon.org/)
- [Meeting C++](https://meetingcpp.com/)
- [C++ Now](https://cppnow.org/)

## C++ Conference YouTube Channels

- [C++ Russia](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCJ9v015sPgEi0jJXe_zanjA)
- [Cpp Con](https://www.youtube.com/user/CppCon)
- [Meeting C++](https://www.youtube.com/user/MeetingCPP)
- [C++ Now](https://www.youtube.com/user/BoostCon)

## Alternative sources for learning C++

- [Learn C++](https://www.learncpp.com/) - It is a free website devoted to teaching you how to program in C++. It's being updated regularly.
- [Collection of various C++ resources](https://awesomecpp.com)
- [Cpp con (back to basics)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLHTh1InhhwT5o3GwbFYy3sR7HDNRA353e)
- [C++ course for language basics](https://www.learncpp.com/)

## Other interesting repositories

- [A cheatsheet of modern C++ language and library features](https://github.com/AnthonyCalandra/modern-cpp-features)
- [Collection of libraries and frameworks for C++ ](https://github.com/fffaraz/awesome-cpp)

---

[**To main page**](../README.md)

Commit message:

Added hackercpp to community sources + minor refactoring (#72)

English/CommunitySources.md, after:

# Community sources

## C++ General

- [CppReference](https://en.cppreference.com)
- [CPlusPlus](https://www.cplusplus.com/reference)
- [C++ Core Guidelines](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines)
- [Microsoft GSL C++ (Guidelines Support Library)](https://github.com/microsoft/GSL)
- [News from the C++ Standardization Committee](https://isocpp.org/)
- [C++ Online Compiler Explorer](https://gcc.godbolt.org)

## Popular C++ conferences 

- [C++ Russia](https://cppconf.ru/en)
- [Cpp Con](https://cppcon.org/)
- [Meeting C++](https://meetingcpp.com/)
- [C++ Now](https://cppnow.org/)

## C++ Conference YouTube Channels

- [C++ Russia](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCJ9v015sPgEi0jJXe_zanjA)
- [Cpp Con](https://www.youtube.com/user/CppCon)
- [Meeting C++](https://www.youtube.com/user/MeetingCPP)
- [C++ Now](https://www.youtube.com/user/BoostCon)

## Alternative sources for learning C++

- [Hackingcpp.com](https://hackingcpp.com/index.html) - The all-in-one web portal with diffenent collections of materials related to C++: books, cheat sheets, recordings from conferences, etc.
- [Awesomecpp.com](https://awesomecpp.com) - The collection of different sources about the C++. 
- [Cpp Con (back to basics)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLHTh1InhhwT5o3GwbFYy3sR7HDNRA353e)
- [Learncpp.com](https://www.learncpp.com/) - It is a free website devoted to teaching you how to program in C++. It's being updated regularly.

## Other interesting repositories

- [A cheatsheet of modern C++ language and library features](https://github.com/AnthonyCalandra/modern-cpp-features)
- [Collection of libraries and frameworks for C++ ](https://github.com/fffaraz/awesome-cpp)

---

[**To main page**](../README.md)
